# Machine-Learning-CA-3
Title and Short Description:
The proposed project aims at the automation of e-commerce product titles and descriptions classification into Electronics, Household, Books, and Clothing and Accessories categories with the help of Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning tools. The primary idea is to avoid manual labeling, which is time consuming and susceptible to mistakes and create a smart model that is capable of indicating the correct type of product automatically. Proper classification of texts is essential in enhancing product search results, personalized recommendations and inventory tagging on the e-commerce sites.
About Dataset:
The dataset that will be used in this project is the E-commerce Text Classification Dataset that was acquired in Kaggle. It has around 5,000 product samples that have text information like titles and descriptions classified under four categories namely Electronics, Household, Books, and Clothing Accessories. In order to model the data, a few preprocessing and filtering were carried out to prepare the data. Duplicate and missing records were eliminated to give consistency in data. All the text entries were changed to lower case to ensure uniformity and unnecessary punctuation, special characters and stop words were removed. The standardization of word forms to lemmatization and tokenization and feature extraction through TF-IDF were performed on the textual data to convert textual data into numerical data that can be used in machine learning algorithms. This was a cleaned and vectorized dataset on which models were developed and their performance compared.
